---
title: "Homesick - Where Home's at Anyway"
date: "2021-02-28"
---

_"Be the one, be the one to take my soul and make it undone._
_Be the one, be the one to take me home and show me the sun."_

Barusan adalah sepenggal lirik dari lagu Hometown milik twenty one pilots. Gak begitu nyambung dengan isi unek-unek postingan kali ini, sih. Tapi rasanya nuansa keseluruhan lagunya ngena aja. (Ok this is the part where you give the song a listen).

Aneh. Sudah dua bulan lebih sedikit aku menjalani hari-hari di rumah di kampung halaman. Berawal dari cuti yang kuambil semasa natal dan tahun baru, dan masih terus berlanjut sampai postingan ini ditulis, seiring dengan kebijakan work from home yang juga masih terus diperpanjang. Aneh karena aku menuliskan homesick sebagai alasan cuti (I've been told by my tech lead that it's such an odd reason to put down in an annual leave letter ._.) dan setelah dua bulan di rumah, that's exactly how I feel. I'm home and I feel homesick, how great is that...

The thing is... I kinda miss my friends... And I miss having my own space. To think it's only been a little less than a year that I get a taste of my dream job and being able to support myself. Somewhere in between, I came to the conclusion that I can only truly feel at home at a place where I pay for the rights to be there. I love my room, the place that I decor to my heart's desire. Filled with only the things I own, a place where I can be completely alone at times. I can truly feel peaceful and in my element there. But the thing is, can I really call it home? The truth is I don't really own the place, right? I only rent it for the time being. Once I lost my current job, will there still be any point in me being there? Also what if someday the owner decides not to let his place for rent. I realize then that it's not permanent. I might not be there for long, but does it make it less of a home? I made friends that feels like family there... I learned to cook. I discovered my love for amigurumi. There's so many memories attached to that place, in such a short amount of time. 

Ini mengingatkanku pada Alm. nenek, yang kadang meluangkan waktunya untuk berlibur di rumah keluarga kami. Nenekku dari Jawa, sementara aku dan keluarga tinggal di Kalimantan. Setiap kali liburan, nenek tidak akan betah lama, kadang dua minggu, kadang hanya seminggu. Katanya waktu itu, tidak banyak yang bisa ia lakukan di rumah kami, berbeda dengan di rumahnya yang familiar dan nyaman. Begitu pula dengan ibuku, saat berlibur di kampung halamannya di Jawa. Beberapa kali ia mengutarakan tidak lagi familiar dengan rumah tempat ia lahir dan dibesarkan. Rumah yang sudah banyak direnovasi, dengan orang-orang baru yang tinggal di dalamnya. Ia merasa seperti orang asing di sana. Is it weird to say that I feel the same to my own family home now? After finding the comfortability of being on my own, sometimes I struggle to feel at home here. But my comfort place isn't rightfully my home, and it is too unstable to be called home.. so we come the question... where is my home and where is my place in this world? Maybe I am homeless hahaha.

I am reminded to that part in The Inception where the wife got too comfortable living in her own made up dream world where she could have all her homes next to each other so she wouldn't have too choose. Hmm... How sweet that must be, but real life doesn't work that way.

Now I think about coming back, even thought I don't really have to yet, but I am in doubt. Will I miss this home when I am at that home? I am especially gonna miss my cats and cuddling with Ame in bed.